Word forms

Capital letters
A B C D E F G ...

Lower case letters
a b c d e f g ...


Noum
	Is a person, place or think

Verb
	is a action word
	
Adjective
	is a word that describes a noum


Common and proper nouns
	Common
		student
		city
		car
		cat
		apple

	Nouns - always using capital letters
		Mary, is a name
		New York
		Mercedes Benz
		Buddy
		Apple - brand name

Pronouns
	replace nouns - his is Jennifer. She is five-years old. She has a brother. He is seven years old. Jennifer is in kindergarten this year.

			Singular	Plural
1st person	I			we
2nd person	You			you
3rd person	he/she/it 	they


Be Verb

Be is a verb but is not a action

We use BE to connect the subject to more information like a noun, adjective or place.

There are 3 forms of BE in the simple present 
am, is, are 
and we make contractions with BE. 
I'm, he's and there.

Simple present
			Singular			Plural
1st person	I am/'m				we are/'re
2nd person	You	are/'re			you are/'re
3rd person	he/she/it is/'s		they are/'re


Nouns & Articles

This lesson is about plural and singular nouns, and articles.

Vowels are vogais

Adding 'S'

boy is boys
orange is oranges
monkey is monkeys because if you remove the 'y' the last char is a vowel
toy is toys because if you remove the 'y' the last char is a vowel

Adding 'ES' for s, ch, sh, x, and z endings
	box is boxes

Adding '-y+ies' for nouns that end with a consonant and y, drop the lie and add ies
	baby is babies
	cherry is cherries
	city is cities

Irregular plural forms
	man is men
	woman is women
	tooth is teeth
	leaf is leaves

For singular nouns
	the article 'a'
		I am a teacher
	the article 'an' before a vowel sound

